Document payment system for core contributors and update proposal status (#723)
actualbudget/docs: docs/contributing/leadership/paying-contributors.md

> ### Paying Reviewers for administrative work

Reviewer: We Use Title Case Headings

```suggestion
### Paying Reviewers for Administrative Work
```

> As our donation income has become steady, we have implemented a lightweight system to compensate **core contributors** who perform administrative tasks — **reviewing pull requests, triaging, and managing issues**. This work is essential to keep up the momentum and maintain project health.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As our donation income has become steady, we have implemented a lightweight system to compensate **core contributors** who perform administrative tasks — ** specifically reviewing pull requests, triaging, and managing issues**. This work is essential to maintain project momentum and ensure its health.
```

#### How the Payment System Works

We allocate a monthly review stipend pool ($1000/month) distributed among reviewers based on the **size of PRs they review** — using **lines of code changed (LOC)** as a proxy for effort. In addition to PR reviews, we recognize contributions around **issue triage** and **resolution**, which are essential to keeping the project healthy and user-friendly.

Points are automatically calculated through our [GitHub workflow](https://github.com/actualbudget/actual/blob/master/.github/scripts/count-points.mjs). Check the workflow documentation for current point values assigned to different contributor actions.

—

**Example Calculation:**

Jack earned 10 points. Nancy earned 15 points.

Total points earned: 25

Value of each point: $1000 / 25 = $40

Jack (Dublin) receives: 10 * $40 = $400

Nancy (Amsterdam) receives: 15 * $40 = $600

—

> ### FAQ

Reviewer: I would rater we used Questions and Answers as these are not (yet) frequently asked.

```suggestion
### Questions and Answers
```

> #### Can earnings be accumulated over a longer time period?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Can earnings be accumulated over a more extended period?
```

As his is level 4 headings, we can forfeit the Title Case requirements

> Yes, but not indefinitely. Twice a year (1st Jan and 1st of July), any earnings not withdrawn are reset to zero. This reduces the bookkeeping required for tracking reserved payouts versus available budget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, but not indefinitely. Twice a year (1st Jan and 1st of July), any earnings not withdrawn are reset to zero. This reduces the bookkeeping required for tracking reserved payouts versus the available budget.
```

#### Can I forfeit the earnings?

Yes. If no payment request is made, earnings are automatically forfeited.

#### How can I receive the payout?

You can receive your payout via OpenCollective by submitting an invoice.

#### Can anyone earn points and receive a payment?

> No, this system is only open to core maintainers. We may extend the system in the future, but currently, only core maintainers are eligible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No, this system is only open to core maintainers. We may extend the system in the future, but currently, only core maintainers are eligible for this privilege.
```

#### What about taxes?

> You are responsible for handling your own taxes. Tax obligations depend on your local laws.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are responsible for handling your taxes. Tax obligations depend on your local laws.
```

#### Will this system use up the entire budget?

> No. We currently receive $1,500–2,000 USD each month. The allocation for this system is $1,000 USD per month, leaving a net-positive $500–1,000 USD per month.

Reviewer: We cannot operate with both $ and USD on the same number. It's either or. I suggest prefixing the numbers with USD to make this crystal clear what 

```suggestion
No. We currently receive between USD 1,500 and USD 2,000 each month. The allocation for this system is USD 1,000 per month, resulting in a net positive of $500–1,000 per month. You can see the details on our [open collective page](https://opencollective.com/actual).
```

> #### What if a month is slow? Do we still pay out $1,000 USD?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### What if a month is slow? Do we still pay out USD 1,000?
```

> No. If fewer than 20 points are earned in a month, the total payout drops to $500 USD.

Reviewer: This is unclear if it is per person or per total contributions - so people will have to read it twice. I have tried to clarify it a bit.

```suggestion
No. If fewer than 20 points are earned in total by the core maintainers in a month, the total payout drops to USD 500,-.
```

> #### What if a month is very busy? Does the payout increase?

Reviewer: I will no be very sad if this does not change :-D 

```suggestion
#### What if a month is hectic? Does the payout increase?
```

> To keep the system simple, the payout does not automatically increase. We may adjust the payout in the future based on participation data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To keep the system simple, the payout does not automatically increase. We reserve the right to adjust the payout in the future based on participation data.
```

#### Can I receive the payout as a gift card or crypto?

> No. All payments are made transparently and openly. We do not use alternative payment methods to avoid taxes.

Reviewer: I think we should refrain from speculating on the taxes :-)

```suggestion
No. All payments are made transparently and openly. We do not use alternative payment methods for any reasons.
```

Author: haha :P
